Facial expression identification is one of the most crucial research topics
in computer vision and is crucial to people's daily work and lives. The
essential elements of non-verbal communication are facial expressions.
Generally speaking, facial expressions are a simple and obvious way for
people to express their feelings and intentions. The use of intelligent
human-computer interaction requires the identification of human emotion
based on facial expressions. However, there are certain issues with the
present research on facial emotion identification, such as the network
model's limited capacity for generalization and the recognition system's
weak level of robustness. In this proposed work, a facial emotion
recognition approach is proposed to accurately classify 7 major human
emotions (Angry, Surprised, Disgusted, Neutral, Happy, Sad and Fearful).
The proposed approach consists of three main phases: preprocessing,
feature extraction using VGG16 and Resnet architectures, then
classification using support vector machines. The proposed approach was
trained and tested on 3 major datasets FER2013, CK+ and KDEF. The
results show that the VGG extracted features then performing
classification using SVM achieved better results than most recent
approaches in literature. For the CK+ dataset the proposed approach
achieved 98% accuracy, for the FER2013 dataset the proposed approach
achieved an accuracy of 65.19% and for the KDEF dataset, the proposed
approach achieved an accuracy of 91%
